# Student's DBMS

Maintaining the data in an institute is a very crucial task. Maintaining the data is also a tedious task. In college administration, all of the modules are interconnected. They are manually maintained. As a result, they must be automated and centralized because other modules require data from one module. For example, when a student requests a course completion certificate, various details must be verified, including his name, registration number, year of study, tests were taken, and other information. As a result, it is necessary to contact all modules, including the office, department, examination, and student results. We need to find the record by some little information like address, age, surname etc. So for that, we need to make a search button to search the record with this bit of information. Sometimes we also want to hide some information from the other employee in the database. We also need to assign a data column to an employee who can update the information.

The GUI based Student Database Management System has designed and im-plemented significant process improvements.  The project was created withPython and Tkinter.  For the database, we have created the txt file.  Usingthis student database management system, we can add, delete, update, view,and clear existing records from the database.  We save the Student name,age, gender, address, and cellphone number using Student ID as the PRI-MARY KEY. The main screen of the project is the figure 1.  The workingof the buttons are following:1.Add New:The add new button add the information from the userinput field to the software database.1
2.Display:The display button show all the record from the student’sdatabase to the student details portal.3.Clear:This button clear all the user input filed.4.Delete:The  delete  button  delete  the  selected  record  from  the  stu-dent’s database.5.Search:This button search the information provided in the user inputfield in the student’s database.6.Update:This  button  update  the  key  information  to  the  selectedrecord in the student’s database.7.Import:Clicking on this button will open the file select window andselect the file to upload into the database.8.Export:Clicking on this button will open a file window to save therecords in external files.9.Exit:Click this button to close the software

To run the code please run the command python3 main.py
